# Article Summarization Fordham

## **PROBLEM STATEMENT**

For PIC Math at Fordham University we worked with Red Ventures as the sponsor of our project. Red Ventures is a media company that works on improving online experiences for the consumers of their brands. Our industry liasions were Dr. Ruiye Ni, Data Science Manager, and Jason Woo, Data Scientist. 

The statement of our problem is to generate summaries no longer than 280 characters for a dataset comprised of 1177 articles from Red Ventures' websites, and generate articles recommendations based on the summaries produced. Often when we search for something using an online search engine, the engine provides search results that have links to websites containing the best matches the search query according to the algorithm that the search engine uses. Under these links, most search engines provide brief summaries of the content that users may find by clicking on the corresponding link. Since we worked on article summariation for Red Ventures, one primary goal of our problem was to increase the qualtiy of the summaries for the articles that appear on Red Ventures' websites so that these websites appear higher in search results when users enter a reasonably related search query. 

In terms of article recommendations, it is important to note that websites where articles are published have increasing been following the trend of having a second, similar article appear directly below the article on the same webpage where users are reading at a given time. As such, the other goal of our problem is to generate logical recommendations for what this second article should be using the summaries that our model generates. This problem of article summarization and recommendation is important because high quality summaries can move Red Ventures articles, or any articles, higher in search results, which increases user traffic on Red Ventures websites and therefore generates more advertisement revenue because of the increased likelihood that a user clicks on an advertisement revenue because of the increased likelihood that a user clicks on an advertisement after visiting a website. The recommendaations after a given article are of similar importance, since high quality article recommendations increase user retenetion after reading the article they initially search for, making them more likely to see and click on advertisements that appear lower on the webpage near the recommended second article.


Final Paper: 
